API to PostgreSQL Data Loader
This Python project fetches data from an API endpoint and loads it into a PostgreSQL database. The solution is designed to be modular and reusable, with clear separation of concerns.

Features
Fetch Data from API: Uses the requests library to fetch data from a specified API endpoint.
Insert Data into PostgreSQL: Uses psycopg2 to insert the fetched data into a PostgreSQL database.
Modular Structure: Separated into classes for easy extension and modification.
Logging: Detailed logging to track the progress of the data fetching and inserting processes.
Requirements
Python: Python 3.x
PostgreSQL: A PostgreSQL database running on your local machine or remote server.
Required Python Libraries:
requests for API communication
psycopg2 for PostgreSQL database interaction
Installation
Follow these steps to set up the project:

1. Clone the Repository
Clone the repository to your local machine:

bash
Copy
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/api-to-postgres.git
cd api-to-postgres
2. Install Dependencies
Install the required Python libraries using pip:

bash
Copy
pip install -r requirements.txt
3. Configure Database and API Settings
Open the config.py file and replace the default configuration values with your own:

Database Configuration:

host: The host of your PostgreSQL server (e.g., 'localhost').
port: The port your PostgreSQL server is listening on (default is '5432').
dbname: Your PostgreSQL database name.
user: Your PostgreSQL username.
password: Your PostgreSQL password.
API Configuration:

Replace API_ENDPOINT with the actual URL of the API you want to fetch data from.
python
Copy
# config.py

DATABASE_CONFIG = {
    'host': 'localhost',
    'port': '5432',
    'dbname': 'your_database_name',
    'user': 'your_db_user',
    'password': 'your_db_password',
}

API_ENDPOINT = 'https://api.example.com/data'  # Replace with your actual API endpoint
4. Create Database Table
Before running the script, you need to create a table in your PostgreSQL database to store the fetched data. Use the following SQL query to create the api_data table:

sql
Copy
CREATE TABLE api_data (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(255),
    value VARCHAR(255),
    timestamp TIMESTAMP
);
Run this SQL query using your PostgreSQL client (such as psql or pgAdmin) to create the necessary table.

5. Run the Script
To run the script and fetch data from the API and load it into the PostgreSQL database, simply run:

bash
Copy
python main.py
The script will fetch data from the API, parse it, and insert the records into the api_data table in your PostgreSQL database.

Project Structure
The project is organized as follows:

plaintext
Copy
api-to-postgres/
│
├── main.py            # Main Python script to fetch data and load it into PostgreSQL
├── config.py          # Configuration file for database and API settings
├── requirements.txt   # List of required Python dependencies
└── README.md          # Project documentation (this file)
main.py
The core of the project, responsible for:

Fetching data from the API using the APIDataFetcher class.
Connecting to PostgreSQL and inserting the data using the Database class.
Orchestrating the entire process with the APIToPostgres class.
config.py
Contains all necessary configuration details for the API and PostgreSQL database connection. It allows for easy modifications without touching the core code logic.

requirements.txt
Contains the required dependencies for the project. You can install them using the following command:

bash
Copy
pip install -r requirements.txt
